Hey,
guys,
welcome backs in this video.
We're going to discuss another technique called the scrolling chart.
Okay,
so as you can see era,
I've got a scroll bar control,
and I've got some data here below it.
Okay?
And as you can see here as a scroll through using the scroll bar control,
the data in the table changes and the data plotted on this column chart as well changes.
Okay,
so let's see,
while you would need to use such a techniques,
I'm gonna go to a scroll bar chart analysis sheet here.
And as you can see here,
we've got a big data set,
okay?
Of months and their sales.
The data actually spends between 2010 until 2000 and 14.
So let's say we want to draw a column chart for that data set.
I'm gonna highlight it,
go to insert here,
and then go to my column charts and just Joey column chart.
And as you can see here,
if you draw a column chart for that is gonna be a long charter is not gonna be pretty.
You know,
it's it's not gonna look good,
cause we've got a lot of data points.
So maybe if we have some sort of a method or technique to reduce the number of data points
,
but at the same time be able to scroll through all the data points,
that would be better.
Okay,
maybe we can go year by year.
Says to compare the sales for the same year of different months of the same year together.
Like to compare the sales of the different months in 2010 together and then compare the
sales of the different months of 2011 as well together,
you know,
because the months of a certain year would have a something in common,
which is that they are in the same year.
Okay,
I'm just gonna delete this chart here,
and I'm going to go back to the scrolling chart tub to see how we can implement that.
Okay,
guys.
So this chart here is just charting this table,
OK?
And you can see her.
That row number 15 is hidden,
so I'm just gonna hide it here because there's something here in row number 15.
Okay,
so there are numbers.
Okay.
And you can see her that this cell here,
so be 15 has a value of one,
and then,
ah,
the cell C 15 has a value of B 15 plus one.
And then you know D 15 is C 15 plus one.
So each cell increments one or adds extra one to the cell before it.
Okay,
when you go from left to right,
and if we use the scroll bar control,
you can see here that actually the numbers are in commenting forwards up until 60.
Okay,
because we've got five years by 12 months,
has 60 points.
This is why the maximum number here is a 60 or the number on the very right is the 60.
Okay.
And let's check here in the hour.
Scroll bar form control,
check.
How is configured?
So I'm going to,
right?
Click and click on format control.
And as you can see here,
this score bar from control is linked to Selby 15 okay?
And the minimum value is one,
and the maximum value is 49.
And the reason for that is that first,
the minimum value is gonna be a one.
Okay.
And then as you scroll forward with the incremental change and the paid change,
Okay?
They both scroll forwards by 12 months is gonna be one and then adding 12 to scroll one
year forwards gonna be 13 and then another 12 to scroll the second year.
Poor.
Would this gonna be 25?
Okay.
And then 37 then 49.
So this is why the maximum value is 49 cases.
This is by scrolling forward by an extra four years.
Okay.
And so the incremental changes a 12 year,
which is when you press on the buttons for the school bar control and the page changes Well
,
when you press in the middle,
okay,
is also a 12.
Okay,
also,
guys,
if we check the form,
it is here in rose 16 and 17.
We can see here that we've got a V look up formula is looking up the months and the sales
from the score bar chart analysis sheet here.
OK?
And we've offset the value of the column index number that we're getting actually from bro
Ok,
so actually,
the V lookups are getting there.
Column index number values from row 15 but it's offset.
They plus one okay.
To make sure that we get the correct values from the school bar chart analysis.
Okay,
because there's an extra column here.
That is the month and the sales.
Okay,
so this is why we ops offset the column in X number by a plus one cause,
for example,
January 11 is in the 13th Column,
but we need to start the look of from this column.
This is why we add a plus one to account for that,
to be able to get the value for January 11 that month correctly,
and also to be able to get the this value for its sales correctly as well.
Okay,
okay,
guys said this is basically the scrolling charts technique,
guys.
It's a very easy technique.
It's similar to the techniques that was seen with the scroll Bar control previously,
OK,
and this just got a schooling chart days,
incremental numbers,
and these numbers are connected to the look of form.
It is so that we're able to look up the correct values.
Okay,
and we make sure to offset,
for example,
the column index number by one if we need to,
so that we can get the correct values,
OK,
and basically this chart is just charting.
This stable is starting a static table OK?
Or is charting the table aesthetically.
But the values in the table are just dynamic.
Okay,
So,
like Ah,
the table is static.
The table is self aesthetic,
but the values are dynamic and they change as you're using this cool bar control.
OK,
so sick.
Basically.
Guys,
for the schooling chart technique.
Thank you very much for watching this video.
I'll see you on the next one.